{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 MS Gothic;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs24 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was thesis.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.16 r1254 (released May 12 2017) on Thu Mar 22 15:16:31 2018
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs24\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw11960\paperh16900\margl2105\margr1707\margt1991\margb1707\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 Light-sheet microscopy used for tracking particles\par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 Craig T. Russell\par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 \chdate \par
{\page
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \qc [Sorry. Ignored {\plain\f3\\begin\{dedication\} ... \\end\{dedication\}}]\par
}{\page
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \qc [Sorry. Ignored {\plain\f3\\begin\{declaration\} ... \\end\{declaration\}}]\par
}{\page
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \qc [Sorry. Ignored {\plain\f3\\begin\{acknowledgements\} ... \\end\{acknowledgements\}}]\par
}{\page
\pard\plain\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 Abstract\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \li1024\ri1024\fi360  This is where you write your abstract ... \par
}\pard\plain\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0  Contents\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \par
{\field{\*\fldinst TOC \\o "1-3" }{\fldrslt }}
\page
\pard\plain\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0  List of Figures\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \par
{\field{\*\fldinst TOC \\f f }{\fldrslt }}
\page
\pard\plain\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0  List of Tables\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \par
{\field{\*\fldinst TOC \\f t }{\fldrslt }}
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Chapter 1\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl360\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Introduction\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Fluorescence microscopy is one of the cornerstones of modern biology, but has generally been limited to 2D culture dishes. Light-sheet microscopy, a recent advance which was awarded Nature Method of the Year 2014, allows fast, non-invasive 3D imaging across an entire organism. This works by decoupling illumination and detection such that the microscope only illuminates a thin section of tissue at a time. By scanning this \lquote light-sheet\rquote  through an organism we can image in 3D more quickly and with less damage than other techniques such as confocal microscopy.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 During the first year of my PhD I designed and built a custom light-sheet microscope which we have applied to studying the cell mechanics of developing embryos. Internal stresses within tissues induce cellular migrations that can govern the organism\rquote s resultant anatomy. We have developed a technique to mechanically probe deep tissue using magnetism. By embedding a magnetic bead in an embryo we can use a controllable, non-invasive magnetic field to move the bead. By pushing a magnetic bead and allowing it to relax we can fit a model to its trajectory and so extract local mechanical properties. The mechanical roles of key proteins in embryonic development can be inferred by comparing results between genetically modified embryos. Our investigations so far have contradicted previous reports that rho-kinase increases cell stiffness in embryonic development. These results are currently being prepared for publication with our collaborators.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 Looking ahead, I intend to move from tracking single magnetic beads to tracking single virus particles, going from the microscopic to nanoscopic scale. Virus particles (virions) invade host cells and hijack their machinery to replicate and then spread. By visualising the journey of virions through the cell we may reveal weaknesses in infection pathways. Light-sheet microscopy is better suited than other techniques for tracking virus trafficking in 3D as virions are exceptionally small and fast. We intend to study Herpes Simplex Virus\~1 which causes cold sores and genital herpes. Furthermore, it serves as a biological model for other Herpesviruses which are associated with many serious diseases including chickenpox and certain lymphomas.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 In addition to designing and constructing a light-sheet fluorescence microscope I have made technological improvements which will be useful for other researchers. The first is a three dimensional region-of-interest technique which promises to simultaneously simplify volumetric imaging calibration whilst also being more robust than current approaches. The second improvement builds upon confocal slit scanning, a technique used in our lab to increase image contrast but takes twice as long to acquire an image. This development now allows for full speed imaging with the same increased contrast. I am currently preparing two manuscripts detailing these improvements for submission to {\i Optics Letters}.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 Light-sheet microscopy is at the cutting edge of live-organism imaging. In the coming years it will help move biology out of the petri dish and back into the animal. Further development requires the marriage of physics, maths, statistics, computer science, chemistry and biology, in laboratories such as the Laser Analytics Group.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl360\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 1  Scientific Background\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 This project aims to develop a light sheet microscope imaging system to permit the three dimensional tracking of particles through biological samples. This will be used to monitor how toxic proteins travel between cells and how virus particles infect their host organisms with minimal photo-damage to the sample, using animal models such as drosophila. This system will be based on the work of Ernst Stelzer who pioneered digital light sheet technologyHuisken2004.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 A light sheet microscope uses orthogonal illumination and detection to optically section biological samples. A previous system was built in order to study developmental biology. This project aims to improve upon this design so as to facilitate a novel particle tracking technique.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 The new system will: {\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Be more vibrationally stable for low noise tracking \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Accommodate a three dimensional stage for particle tracking and volume imaging with nanometre resolution \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Use structured illumination modes that can provide higher resolution than standard illumination \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Provide more excitation wavelengths to enable improved biological flexibility in terms of fluorescent dyes that can be used with better specificity \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Feature a user-friendly software interface so that users can produce images independently with a strong programming architecture for future collaborative development. \par
}\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl360\slmult1 \sb180 \fi0 1.1  Motivation\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Viruses are carriers of infectious disease in humans, by hijacking the internal working of the cell the virus replicates using the machinery of the cell. {80}{} of adults in the UK are thought to be infected with Herpes Simplex Virus 1 (cold sores) which is currently medically incurableHerpes; only the symptoms can be suppressed. Understanding virus pathology is a requirement for assisting in therapeutic intervention. The virus structure is well understood through high resolution techniques such as Atomic Force Microscopy and Electron Microscopy. In this group we have used super resolution techniques to study the Herpes Simplex Virus 1 structure {\i in vitro}Laine2015. Contemporary biological models of viral infectivity dynamics are based on {\i in vitro} studies Studying these dynamics {\i in vivo} and following a virus through its entire process in a living organism could provide new, useful insights and understanding which could be used to suppress or reverse viral infection in humans. Virus particles are smaller than the diffraction limit ({20}{}-{200}{}); optical super resolution techniques can image sub-diffraction limit and have observed Human Immunodeficiency Virus 1Pereira2012. Virus particles move tens of nanometres on the time scale of millisecondsBrandenburg2007, these techniques currently do not produce the temporal resolution required to accurately track virus particlesBrandenburg2007 in three dimensions and are limited to {\i in vitro} studies.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 Dementia among the rapidly ageing first world population is becoming a heavy burden on healthcare; as of 2015 there are {850000}{} people in the UK suffering with dementiaJudd. Alzheimer\rquote s disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative affliction accounting for 62% of all dementia suffers. Amyloid fibril plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NTF) are commonly found in post mortem AD sufferers\rquote  brains. It is believed that misfolded Amyloid plaques trigger the accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles and a toxic species of microtubule-associated protein, tauIttner2011. Within our group we have studied Amyloid fibril aggregation using super resolution techniques and the role of tau proteins in neuronal dysfunction. We have demonstrated that extracellular tau can initiate tau pathology in ADMichel2014a, a complimentary {\i in vivo} study on tau protein\rquote sDeCalignon2012 dynamic propagation in axons would serve to elucidate AD pathology.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 These issues can be addressed using light sheet technology. Light sheet microscopes use orthogonal plane illumination to optically section biological samples, allowing an {\i in vivo} three dimensional study. Confocal microscopy also produces optical sectioning, however its raster scanning nature means it is a slow technique. Orthogonal illumination and detection allows detection rates comparable to wide-field. Light sheet technology is also a low photo-toxcity method compared to confocal and as such can image for extended periods of time at millisecond resolution.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 Particle localisation techniques are compatible with light sheet microscopy and can be used to accurately localise particles to sub-pixel, sub-diffraction limited positions in two dimensions. In conjunction with a novel third dimensional tracking technique, exclusive to light sheet, full sub-diffraction limited tracking is viableSpille2015a. This will then enable the {\i in vivo} study of virus trafficking through a host cell and protein propagation in neurons with unparalleled temporal resolution.\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl360\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 1.2  Structure\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here, a light sheet microscope is developed to track particles in three dimensions with millisecond temporal resolution. Firstly the theory of fluorescence microscopy and light sheet microscopy is discussed with a comparison to other similar techniques followed by a review of particle tracking methods which are considered in the context of a light sheet microscope. The current biological model of virus pathology and tau protein propagation and their challenges is then presented. This report then discusses the methods and materials used to build a light sheet microscope up until its current state. Finally the progress of the microscope is summarised and the future work for the project is discussed in terms of experiments needed (once the system is operational) to determine its ability and limitations when applied to virus and tau protein tracking.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl360\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 2  Optical Microscopic Imaging\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Biological processes occur at the sub micrometer-nanometre scale and thus can be studied using optical microscopesMurphy2012e. The essential components of an optical microscope have not changed in over 200 yearsBradbury1998. These components are: a condenser lens, to concentrate illumination into the sample; an objective lens, to collect and magnify the emissions from the sample and a tube lens to focus the light from the objective onto the image plane and an eyepiece, now more commonly a digital camera for recording. With the discovery of fluorescence and development of fluorescent proteins (labels), contrast and sensitivity improved dramatically. This section will briefly introduce the physical principles of fluorescence and its impact on optical microscopy.\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl360\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMeq_excitation}2.1{\*\bkmkend BMeq_excitation}  Fluorescence\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Fluorescent molecules emit light at a longer wavelength than the incident photons. Fluorescence occurs when excited electrons (electrons not in the ground state) relax back to their ground state. This process is quantum mechanical whereby photons are emitted with energy equal to the energy of the difference of the ground and excited stateLakowicz2007. Fluorescently emitted photons will be of a lower energy and hence have a longer wavelength ({\b Stoke\rquote s Shift}). An excited electron will not typically excite to exactly the first excited state, but more likely a slightly higher degenerate energy state. From here the electrons will, over time \ldblquote trickle\rdblquote  down to the lowest energy level available whilst emitting phonons (vibrational energy packets) until eventually they reach the first excited state ({{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i S}\\s\\do6({\fs20 1})}}{\fldrslt }}
}), relax and emit a fluorescent photon (see Equation({\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMeq_emission \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.2}}})). Figure{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfig_jablonski \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.1}}} demonstrates this excitation and emission process through the use of a {\b Jablonski diagram}.\par
{\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i E}{\i x}{\i c}{\i i}{\i t}{\i a}{\i t}{\i i}{\i o}{\i n}}}}{\fldrslt }}
\par
\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i S}\\s\\do6({\fs20 0})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ +{\i h}{\u957*}\\s\\do6({\fs20 {\i E}{\i x}}){\u8594*}{\i S}\\s\\do6({\fs20 1})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab{\b0 ()}\par
\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i E}{\i m}{\i i}{\i s}{\i s}{\i i}{\i o}{\i n}}}}{\fldrslt }}
\par
\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i S}\\s\\do6({\fs20 1})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u8594*}{\i S}\\s\\do6({\fs20 0})+{{\i h}{\u957*}\\s\\do6({\fs20 {\i E}{\i m}})}\\s\\do6({\fs20 {{\i P}{\i h}{\i o}{\i t}{\i o}{\i n}}}){\i S}\\s\\do6({\fs20 1})+{ \\F(1,2){\u295*}{\u969*}}\\s\\do6({\fs20 {{\i P}{\i h}{\i o}{\i n}{\i o}{\i n}}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMeq_emission}2{\*\bkmkend BMeq_emission})}\par
}{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb240 \fi360 \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl360\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMfig_jablonski}1{\*\bkmkend BMfig_jablonski}: Jablonski diagram representing in colour the excitation of Alexa Fluor{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up6({\fs20 \'a9})}}{\fldrslt }}
} 488 in a standard two level fluorescent system.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "1 Jablonski diagram representing in colour the excitation of Alexa Fluor{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up6({\fs20 \'a9})}}{\fldrslt }}
} 488 in a standard two level fluorescent system." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb360 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsec_lifetime}2.1.1{\*\bkmkend BMsec_lifetime}  Fluorescence Lifetime\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Fluorescence lifetime is a valuable extra dimension of information exploited in biological imaging. The time an electron spends in the excited state will vary randomly but it will be governed by a probability; the longer the electron is in this high energy state the fewer electrons in a population will also be excited. If one were to excite a population of fluorescent molecules into an excited state the population would begin to decay with an associated time constant {{\u964*}}, see Equation({\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMeq_rateeq \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.3}}}). {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i Q}\\s\\do6({\fs20 21})}}{\fldrslt }}
} is a non-radiative process that has a direct environmental dependence with an impact on {{\u964*}}, as a result the decay constant can be affected (and therefore measure) by a multitude of factors including photochemistry, local viscositySuhling2012, temperatureSchaerli2009, pH and more.\par
{\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ [{\i S}\\s\\do6({\fs20 1})]({\i t})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ =[{\i S}\\s\\do6({\fs20 1})]\\s\\do6({\fs20 0}){\i e}\\s\\up6({\fs20 \u8722? \\F({\i t},{\u964*})})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMeq_rateeq}3{\*\bkmkend BMeq_rateeq})}\par
\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i w}{\i h}{\i e}{\i r}{\i e}}}}{\fldrslt }}
\par
\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u964*}=}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ  \\F(1,{{\i A}\\s\\do6({\fs20 21})}\\s\\do6({\fs20 {{\i R}{\i a}{\i d}{\i i}{\i a}{\i t}{\i i}{\i v}{\i e}}})+{\i Q}\\s\\do6({\fs20 21}))}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab{\b0 (4)}\par
}\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsec_photobleaching}2.1.2{\*\bkmkend BMsec_photobleaching}  Photo-bleaching\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 If a molecule for instance is excited to a singlet excited state {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ [{\i S}\\s\\do6({\fs20 1})]}}{\fldrslt }}
} but decays atypically to a triplet state {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ [{\i T}\\s\\do6({\fs20 1})]}}{\fldrslt }}
} photo-bleaching may occur, see Figure{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfig_jablonski \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.1}}}. In the triplet state the molecule is then susceptible to covalent reaction inhibiting the typical fluorescent reaction. Molecules in triplet states tend to also have longer lifetimes as the decay process from a triplet state is normally forbidden in terms of radiative decay. Explicitly for microscopy photo-bleaching is named fading as it literally means a sample that is imaged over an extended time will produce less fluorescent signal and fade.\par
\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 2.1.3  Photo-toxicity\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 As well as fluorophores photo-bleaching due to exposure, biological specimens can be overly exposed to light. Most biologicals are exposed to solar EM radiation regularly and most of those utilise it in some manner, as a result overly exposing a sample to photons can be toxic to them causing experimental complications and oddities in observed reactions or even death. A reasonable standard to consider as a \ldblquote safe" exposure for a biological is that of the solar constant; it is a fair assumption that most biologicals are capable of surviving the Sun as they have evolved in that manner. The Sun has a solar constant of {{\f5\u8764*}{1}{}={1}{}}, assuming {10}{} minutes of exposure is also safe that would imply an energy density of {{\f5\u8764*}{0.6}{}}. A cell diameter is {{\f5\u8764*}{100}{}} and an embryo diameter is {{\f5\u8764*}{900}{}} meaning they should only be exposed to tens of millijoules and hundreds of millijoules respectivelyStelzer2015.\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl360\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 2.2  Widefield Fluorescent Microscopy\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 The key concept behind the fluorescent microscope is the ability to separate excitation and emission. Classical optical microscopes as well as electron microscopes both had the problem of separating these signals. Non-fluorescent optical microscopy employed many techniques including dark field and phase contrast microscopy to avoid this problem, however they could not address it so fundamentallyMurphy2012e. Through fluorescence the signal retrieved from the sample is chromatically labelled. The invention of the dichroic mirror allowed these signals to be physically redirected and therefore detected completely independently. Excitation and emission filters are used to improve light source spectra and limit scattered light emissions, see Figure{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfig_filtercube \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.2}}}.\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb240 \fi360 \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl360\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMfig_filtercube}2{\*\bkmkend BMfig_filtercube}: Standard fluorescent filter cube. (1) Excitation filter (2) Dichroic mirror (3) Emission barrier}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "2 Standard fluorescent filter cube. (1) Excitation filter (2) Dichroic mirror (3) Emission barrier" \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb360 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMeq_rayleigh}2.2.1{\*\bkmkend BMeq_rayleigh}  Limitations\par
\pard\plain\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb180 \fi0 The Point Spread Function\par
\~\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {\b Spatial resolution} is the ability of an observer to physically distinguish two close objects in an imageTsekenis2015. Wide-field microscopes are classically limited to {250}{} resolution as the wavelength of visible light is of this magnitudeBradbury1998. Within a microscope the true limiter is the impulse response of a lens when passing light. A lens, when focussing and magnifying, can be thought of as a low pass filter; it permits low resolution information up until a cut-off frequency. In the Fourier plane this filtering is a circle of radius:\par
{\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i k}\\s\\do6({\fs20 {\i r}})={\i n} \\F(2{\i N}{\i A},{\u955*})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab
\tab{\b0 (5)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 The inverse transform of this frequency filtering produces the function convolved with the sample being imaged, the {\b P}oint {\b S}pread {\b F}unction. See Figure{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfig_Airy_Disc \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.4}}} for a graphical interpretation.\par
\pard\plain\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 The Rayleigh Limit\par
\~\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Lord Rayleigh appraised a limit of resolution in an optical system in terms of the separation of two Airy disc point spread functions. Rayleigh defined the limit as the distance when the maximum of the PSF is positioned on top of the first minima of the other. This definition implies a contrast between the two functions of {27}{}; if the intensity trough seen from two airy discs in a microscope is lower than that, then by Rayleigh\rquote s criterion (see Equation{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMeq_rayleigh \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.6}}}) the two objects cannot confidently be resolved, see Figure{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfig_rayleighlimit \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.3}}}.\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb240 \fi360 \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl360\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMfig_rayleighlimit}3{\*\bkmkend BMfig_rayleighlimit}: Two identical objects separated such that they are "barely resolved", the contrast (intensity difference) between their superposition being 73% of the intensity maximum.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "3 Two identical objects separated such that they are "barely resolved", the contrast (intensity difference) between their superposition being 73% of the intensity maximum." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}{\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl360\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i r}= \\F({\u955*},2{\i n}{\i N}{\i A})= \\F(1,{\i k}\\s\\do6({\fs20 {\i r}}))}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab
\tab{\b0 ()}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 Non-optical far field techniques can resolve much smaller than the diffraction limit. However, each is limited in its biological imaging capacity. Electron microscopy uses electrons instead of photons to observe Angstrom sized particleRuska1941. An electron microscope is limited by its De Broglie wavelength, the effective size of an electron, on the pico meter scaleAhmed2011. Electron microscopes are impractical for {\i in vivo} biological studies, as high intensity electron beams require conductive dissipater coatings which impede and damage biological processes.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \fi360 Atomic force microscopes use sensitive piezo crystals to position and record surface information from samples using a cantilever at the nanometre scaleBinnig1988. The tip of an AFM is convolved with the profile of the surface and so is limited in resolution to the size of an atom. Atomic force microscopes are slow raster scanning imaging techniques but more crucially offer no sample specificity, which is requisite to biology as it involves querying how two biological agents interact or how an agent acts in environment: e.g observing diseased cell interactions in a mouse brain modelMisgeld2006, monitoring cancerous tumoursHoffman2005 and understanding virus structurePereira2012.\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1 \sb240 \fi360 \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl360\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl360\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMfig_Airy_Disc}4{\*\bkmkend BMfig_Airy_Disc}: Graphic representing the point spread function in arbitrary units of a lens. This function is convolved with any sample being imaged through its respective lens.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "4 Graphic representing the point spread function in arbitrary units of a lens. This function is convolved with any sample being imaged through its respective lens." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}